# narst/stylo: Output

## Introduction

This document describes the output produced by the pipeline. 

The directories listed below will be created in the results directory after the pipeline has finished. All paths are relative to the top-level results directory.

<!-- TODO nf-core: Write this documentation describing your workflow's output -->

## Pipeline overview

The pipeline is built using [Nextflow](https://www.nextflow.io/) and processes data using the following steps:

- [nanoq](#nanoq) - Read filtering
- [Rasusa](#rasusa) - Read Downsampling
- [Flye](#flye) - Assembly
- [Circlator](#circlator) - Circularization of assembly
- [Medaka](#medaka) - Assembly error correction
- [BUSCO](#busco) - Assembly QC
- [Pipeline information](#pipeline-information) - Report metrics generated during the workflow execution

### nanoq

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `nanoq/`
  - `*_filtered.fastq.gz`: filtered reads
  - `*_filtered.stats`: basic stats summary for filtered reads

</details>

Ultra-fast quality control and summary reports for nanopore reads. For further reading and documentation see [nanoq usage](https://github.com/esteinig/nanoq?tab=readme-ov-file#usage).

### rasusa

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `rasusa/`
  - `*.fastq.gz`: downsampled reads

</details>

Randomly subsample sequencing reads to a specified coverage. For further reading and documentation see [rasusa usage](https://github.com/mbhall88/rasusa?tab=readme-ov-file#usage).

### Flye

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `flye/`
  - `*.assembly.fasta.gz` : final assembly
  - `*.assembly_graph.gfa.gz` : final repeat graph in gfa format
  - `*.assembly_graph.gv.gz` : final repeat graph in gv format
  - `*.assembly_info.txt` : basic info about assembly
  - `*.flye.log` : full log for flye run
  - `*.params.json`: input parameters used for flye

</details>

Fast and accurate de novo assembler for single molecule sequencing reads. For further reading and documentation see the [Flye usage page](https://github.com/mikolmogorov/Flye/blob/flye/docs/USAGE.md).

### Circlator

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `circlator_fixstart/`
  - `*.fasta`: circularized assembly

</details>

For further reading and documentation see [circlator usage](https://github.com/sanger-pathogens/circlator?tab=readme-ov-file#usage).

### Medaka

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `medaka/`
  - `*.fa.gz`: Error corrected assembly

</details>

Neural network sequence error correction. For further reading and documentation see [medaka usage](https://github.com/nanoporetech/medaka?tab=readme-ov-file#usage).

### busco

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `busco/`
  - `*-auto-busco/`: Directory containing all intermediate outputs of busco
  - `*-auto-busco.batch_summary.txt`: full QC summary
  - `short_summary.generic.*` : QC summary for generic organisms (bacteria, ...)
  - `short_summary.specific.*` : QC summary for specific organisms (enterobacteriaceae, campylobacterota, ...)

</details>

BUSCO provides measures for quantitative assessment of genome assembly, gene set, and transcriptome completeness based on evolutionarily informed expectations of gene content from near-universal single-copy orthologs selected from OrthoDB. For further reading and documentation see the [busco github](https://github.com/metashot/busco).

<!-- EXAMPLE
### MultiQC

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `multiqc/`
  - `multiqc_report.html`: a standalone HTML file that can be viewed in your web browser.
  - `multiqc_data/`: directory containing parsed statistics from the different tools used in the pipeline.
  - `multiqc_plots/`: directory containing static images from the report in various formats.

</details>

[MultiQC](http://multiqc.info) is a visualization tool that generates a single HTML report summarising all samples in your project. Most of the pipeline QC results are visualised in the report and further statistics are available in the report data directory.

Results generated by MultiQC collate pipeline QC from supported tools e.g. FastQC. The pipeline has special steps which also allow the software versions to be reported in the MultiQC output for future traceability. For more information about how to use MultiQC reports, see <http://multiqc.info>.

 -->

### Pipeline information

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `pipeline_info/`
  - Reports generated by Nextflow: `execution_report.html`, `execution_timeline.html`, `execution_trace.txt` and `pipeline_dag.dot`/`pipeline_dag.svg`.
  - Reports generated by the pipeline: `pipeline_report.html`, `pipeline_report.txt` and `software_versions.yml`. The `pipeline_report*` files will only be present if the `--email` / `--email_on_fail` parameter's are used when running the pipeline.
  - Reformatted samplesheet files used as input to the pipeline: `samplesheet.valid.csv`.
  - Parameters used by the pipeline run: `params.json`.

</details>

[Nextflow](https://www.nextflow.io/docs/latest/tracing.html) provides excellent functionality for generating various reports relevant to the running and execution of the pipeline. This will allow you to troubleshoot errors with the running of the pipeline, and also provide you with other information such as launch commands, run times and resource usage.
